# clj-finagle

A Clojure wrapper around Twitter's Finagle RPC server/client

## Usage

Finagle is an asynchronous network stack for building RPC clients/servers. See https://github.com/twitter/finagle. This project aims to simplify some of the code needed to generate and work with these clients and servers.

Finagle server/client interfaces can be generated by running Twitter's Scrooge compiler on Thrift IDL files. The first step is to create a Thrift IDL file describing your service. The following example will create the bare mininum to demonstrate usage of this library. For more information, check out http://thrift.apache.org.

#### Set up your project file

    (defproject my-awesome-project "0.1"
      ...
      :java-source-path "src/java"

      :plugins          [[lein-scrooge "0.1.1"]]

      :dependencies     [[clj-finagle "0.1.2"]]

      :scrooge {
        :language "Java"
        :finagle  true
      }
      ...
    )

#### Create Thrift IDL file to describe your service

    $ mkdir src/thrift
    $ vi src/thrift/example.thrift

    namespace java com.example

    struct Request {
      1: required string foo
    }

    service Example {
      void ping(),
      string lookup(Request req)
    }


#### Generate source code

If you used the project settings above, then you should be all set to run the lein-scrooge plugin to generate your java source. See http://github.com/jcrean/lein-scrooge for additional details.

    $ lein scrooge
    $ lein javac

This will generate source code into src/java (or wherever you've configured scrooge to place generated source) and compile.

#### Define thrift processor

You need to define how your RPC server will process requests by defining a `processor` (see http://thrift.apache.org/docs/concepts/ for more info).

    (ns my-namespace
      (:use
       clj-finagle.core)
      (:import
       ;; generated service code via example.thift.
       ;; you'll need to import a couple of classes that were generated by Scrooge.
       [com.example Example
                    Example$FutureIface
                    Example$FinagledService
                    Example$FinagledClient]))

    ;; Define a processor for the Example service.
    ;; Provides implementations of RPC methods defined in your IDL file (example.thrift)
    ;; NOTE that finagle processors must return com.twitter.util.Future objects.

    (def-processor :example-processor Example

      (ping [] (com.twitter.util.Future/Void))

      (lookup [^Request req]
        (if (= "winterfell" (.getFoo req))
          (com.twitter.util.Future/value "winter is coming")
          (com.twitter.util.Future/value "seven hells!"))))

#### Define the RPC config that will be used by servers/clients

    (register-rpc :example
      {:service          "Example"
       :processor        :example-processor
       :name             "MyAwesomeService"
       :port             8888})

#### Start RPC server

    (start-server :example)

This will start a Finagle server that listens on the port specified in your config.

#### Call into the service

The following examples demonstrate how a client would call the two functions we've defined in our example service. It is assumed that `register-rpc` has been called already.

Example of calling ping() function that we defined above:

    (call-service
      :example
      (ping)
      (onSuccess [ret]          (println "server is alive! return value is nil since function returns void"))
      (onFailure [^Throwable t] (println (format "something has gone wrong: %s" t))))

Example of calling lookup() function which accepts a `Request` object as a parameter and returns a string:

    (call-service
     :example
     (lookup (Request. "winterfell"))
     (onSuccess [^String ret]  (println (format "got response: %s" ret)))
     (onFailure [^Throwable t] (println (format "something has gone wrong: %s" t))))

## License

Copyright © 2013

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License, the same as Clojure.
